>> The ls command is a widely used command in Unix-like operating systems (such as Linux and macOS) to list the files and directories within a specified directory. It provides an overview of the contents of a directory, including their names, permissions, ownership, size, and other details. The primary purpose of the ls command is to allow users to quickly examine the files and directories in a specific location. It offers several options and variations to tailor the output to the user's preferences.

>> The cat command is a common command in Unix-like operating systems (such as Linux and macOS) that is used to display the contents of one or more text files directly in the terminal. The name "cat" stands for "concatenate," as one of its primary purposes is to concatenate the contents of files and display them sequentially.

$ cat filename.txt
This is the content of filename.txt.

$ cat file1.txt file2.txt
Content of file1.txt
Content of file2.txt


>> The ps command is used in Unix-like operating systems (such as Linux and macOS) to provide information about currently running processes. It displays a snapshot of the active processes on the system, including their process IDs (PIDs), resource usage, status, and other relevant information.

>> The cp command is used in Unix-like operating systems (such as Linux and macOS) to copy files and directories from one location to another. It allows you to duplicate files and directories, either within the same directory, between different directories, or even across different filesystems.

>> The echo command is a simple and widely used command in Unix-like operating systems (such as Linux and macOS) that is used to display text or messages in the terminal. It is often used for printing messages, displaying variable values, or producing output within shell scripts.

$ echo "Hello, world!"
Hello, world!

>> The cmp command in Unix-like operating systems is used to compare two files byte by byte and display the first mismatch, if any, along with the byte offset where the mismatch occurs. It's a simple utility for comparing the contents of two files. 

$ cmp file1.txt file2.txt
file1.txt file2.txt differ: char 20, line 1

>> The pwd command, short for "print working directory," is used in Unix-like operating systems (such as Linux and macOS) to display the current directory or working directory. It shows the full path of the directory you are currently in within the file system.

$ pwd
/home/user/documents

>> The rm command in Unix-like operating systems is used to remove (delete) files and directories. Be cautious when using this command, as deleted data cannot usually be recovered without backups.

>> The mv command in Unix-like operating systems is used to move or rename files and directories. It allows you to change the location of a file or directory within the file system or simply change its name.

Moving a File:
$ mv source_file.txt destination/

Renaming a File:
$ mv old_name.txt new_name.txt

>> The touch command is used in Unix-like operating systems (such as Linux and macOS) to create empty files or update the access and modification timestamps of existing files. It's a simple utility that can be used for various purposes, including creating placeholder files and updating timestamps.

Creating a New Empty File:
$ touch filename.txt

Updating Timestamps:
$ touch existing_file.txt


>> The chmod command in Unix-like operating systems (such as Linux and macOS) is used to change the permissions of files and directories. It allows you to control who can read, write, and execute files, and who has ownership of them. File permissions are an important aspect of system security and access control.

$ chmod 644 file.txt
In this example, the file file.txt will have permissions set to read and write for the owner and read-only for others.

u for owner, g for group, o for others, and a for all

Each digit is the sum of the values corresponding to read (4), write (2), and execute (1) permissions

>> The clear command is used in Unix-like operating systems (such as Linux and macOS) to clear the terminal screen, effectively removing all text and content from the terminal window. It's a simple way to improve readability and start with a clean terminal interface.

>> The man command in Unix-like operating systems is used to display the manual (documentation) pages for various commands and utilities. It provides detailed information about how to use and configure the specified command, along with explanations of its options and arguments.

$ man ls

>> The more command is used in Unix-like operating systems to view the contents of a file one screen at a time. It's particularly useful for reading large files that would otherwise scroll past the terminal window too quickly to read.

Navigation:
Once the contents of the file are displayed, you can navigate through them using various keyboard commands:

Spacebar: Scroll down by one screen.
Enter: Scroll down by one line.
B: Scroll up by one screen.
Y: Scroll up by one line.
Q: Quit and exit the more view.

Searching for Keywords:
You can search for keywords within the file by pressing the / key, followed by the keyword and then Enter. To find the next occurrence, press n.

Exiting the View:
To exit the more view and return to the terminal, press the Q key.

>> The less command is used in Unix-like operating systems to view the contents of a file interactively, one screen at a time. It's an enhancement over the older more command, offering more features and capabilities for navigating and reading through files.

$ less large_file.txt

The less command provides a powerful way to read and navigate through the contents of large files. It's particularly useful when you need to analyze log files, read documentation, or review the content of long text files in a more controlled and efficient manner.

>> The grep command is a powerful text-searching utility in Unix-like operating systems that allows you to search for specific patterns or strings within files or input streams. It's commonly used for searching and filtering text-based data.

$ grep "pattern" file.txt


>> The head command in Unix-like operating systems is used to display the beginning or top lines of a file or input stream. It's often used to preview the contents of files without displaying the entire file, especially when dealing with large files.

$ head filename.txt

You can specify a different number of lines to be displayed using the -n option.
$ head -n 20 filename.txt 

>> The tail command in Unix-like operating systems is used to display the end or last lines of a file or input stream. It's often used to monitor log files or check the latest entries in files that are being updated.

$ tail filename.txt

You can specify a different number of lines to be displayed using the -n option.
$ tail -n 20 filename.txt  

>> The sort command in Unix-like operating systems is used to sort lines of text in alphabetical or numerical order. It's a versatile utility that allows you to reorder lines in a file or input stream based on specific criteria.

$ sort filename.txt

Numerical Sorting:
$ sort -n numbers.txt

>> The whoami command is used in Unix-like operating systems to display the username of the currently logged-in user. It provides information about the identity of the user who is currently executing the command.

Displaying the Username:
$ whoami
user123



